C.  Peaks on Shining Rock Ledge and Art Loeb Trail: Sam Knob (6040 feet),  Black Balsam Knob (6214 feet), Tennent Mountain (6040 feet), Grassy Cove Top (6040 feet), Shining Rock (6040 feet) 

Sam Knob (6040 feet) is a prominent peak with two summits easily apparent to the southwest from the parking area at the end of Forest Road 816 off the Blue Ridge Parkway at mile 420.  To climb it, one should follow the trail from the parking area through a field to the base, where a recently improved trail climbs to the summits. The South summit of Sam Knob is the higher one. Black Balsam Knob (6214 feet) is the first of the major peaks on the Art Loeb Trail, which crosses Forest Road 816 0.7 miles from the Blue Ridge Parkway.  Follow the Art Loeb Trail north a little more than a mile to the summit that is evident just off the trail.  Great views. Tennent Mountain (6040 feet) is about a mile beyond Black Balsam Knob on the Art Loeb Trail.  It features exceptional views and a plaque honoring Dr. G.S. Tennent for whom the mountain was named.

Grassy Cove Top (6040 feet) is the next major peak north of Tennent Mountain on the Art Loeb Trail.  From Tennent Mountain descend to Ivestor Gap, where the trail crosses a former railroad bed.  Continue along the Art Loeb alongside Grassy Cove Top.  On the north side an unmarked trail cuts back and ascends to the summit, which has excellent views and an abundance of blueberries in season.

Shining Rock (6040 feet) features a notable outcropping of white quartz from which it takes its name.  It is located about 3.5 miles along the Art Loeb Trail or it can be reached via the railroad bed that begins at the parking area near Sam Knob.  From Shining Rock Gap, at the base, various trails ascend to the summit, which is not the prominent quartz outcropping on the side of the mountain, but is a smaller and apparent one that will be evident when one reaches the top of the mountain.

Most Commonly Used/Accepted Routes:

         Sam Knob, Black Balsam, Tennent Mountain, Grassy Cove Top and Shining Rock via Art Loeb Trail and returning via Shining Rock Ledge; This hike, which is about 12 miles in length, begins at the parking area at the end of Forest Road 816, climb Sam Knob, walk up the Forest Road to the Art Loeb Trail, follow it along the summits of the other four mountains, and return on the more level former railroad bed called Shining Rock Ledge. 

         Shining Rock via Chestnut Ridge and Shining Creek; Beginning at the parking area on US 276, about 5 miles north of the Blue Ridge Parkway, the route follows Shining Creek Trail, then climbs the steep Chestnut Ridge Trail over Dog Loser Knob and Old Butt Knob to Shining Rock, then down Shining Creek, one of our region뭩 most beautiful streams. 

         Mount Hardy, Chestnut Bald and Sam Knob via Mountains-to-Sea Trail and Flat Laurel Creek.

This 12-mile hike includes three of the 6000 footers; Chestnut Bald, Sam Knob, and Mount Hardy. It is described below as a single vehicle trip. With two vehicles the Parkway segment can be eliminated, saving almost 2 miles. The trail up Mount Hardy is obscure in places and easiest to follow if the hike is done west to east as described below. There are several stream crossings, but all can usually be rock hopped. The best map of the area is the Pisgah Ranger District map published by National Geographic. 

At mile 424.7 on the Parkway take the trail climbing the side of Mount Hardy. The trail forks in a clearing with a 3-pointed blaze painted on a flat boulder to your right. The left fork climbs to the summit of Mt. Hardy. On the summit plateau there is a benchmark on your right, but this is not the summit. Follow the plateau trail to the south. There are several obscure side trails, stay to the left but close to the ridgeline. The trail goes to a flat boulder about six feet high at the south end of the plateau. This is the summit.


 Return to the clearing with the 3-pointed blaze and continue north down the ridge towards the MST. Go right at the first fork in the ridge trail to a junction with the MST. Turn right and follow the MST east. This is a wilderness area and the MST is not marked. 

After passing through a large open field you will come to an
obvious fork with a sign marking the right fork as the MST. Take the left fork to NC 215.  Walk down NC 215 to the first gravel road leading to your right. Take this gravel road down to Bubbling Spring Branch and cross the Branch. You are now on the Flat Laurel Creek Trail. 

After walking about 2.3 miles you will begin to parallel Flat Laurel Creek.  After about 0.3 miles more turn left on the blue-blazed Sam Knob trail (no sign, but a blaze). Follow this trail to the Sam Knob Summit Trail (not shown on map). The northern peak on Sam Knob is the summit. Return to the Flat Laurel Creek Trail junction, turn left and continue east. Turn right on the Little Sam Knob Trail. Turn left on the MST. 

The MST gradually climbs to the ridge north of Chestnut Bald and then climbs southeast along the east side of the Bald. About 50 feet from where the MST makes a left turn and starts dropping, the trail crosses the USPS property line (sign and orange blaze on tree to right of trail). (Note: About 5 feet beyond the left turn on the MST there is a short trail leading right to a magnificent view to the east and south.) There is a faint
surveyors path  along the property line to the summit. Return on the MST to the Little Sam Trail junction.

 Continue west on the MST to the first major trail (blue-blazed) going to the left. Follow this trail (not on map) and turn right on the paved trail to Devil뭩 Courthouse. Descend to the Parkway and return to your car.
 

         Black Balsam Knob and Tennent Mountain via Art Loeb Trail and Shining Rock Ledge; Beginning at Forest Road 816 this moderate loop crosses Black Balsam Knob and Tennent Mountain on the Art Loeb Trail.  From Iverson Gap it would return on the Shining Rock Ledge.

C.       Cold Mountain (6030 feet) 

Cold Mountain is now famous because of Charles Frazier뭩 novel of the same name.  It is an isolated and beautiful mountain located at the end of the Great Balsam range beyond Shining Rock.  The most common ways of accessing Cold Mountain are from Camp Daniel Boone Boy Scout Camp or by continuing along the Art Loeb Trail past Shining Rock, crossing the spectacular ridge called the Narrows, and then descending into Deep Gap, from which a trail leads approximately an hour to the summit.  There one can experience excellent views from a rock overlook.

Most Commonly Used/Accepted Routes:

         Cold Mountain from Camp Daniel Boone Scout Camp; This in-and-out hike begins above the headquarters of  Camp Daniel Boone and ascends the Art Loeb Trail to Deep Gap and from there goes to the summit.  Return by the same route for a total of 11 miles.  Strenuous.

         Cold Mountain via Little East Fork and Art Loeb Trails; From Camp Daniel Boone one ascends the Little East Fork of the Pigeon River until the trail leaves the stream and climbs to Shining Rock Ledge.  Passing Shining Rock the hiker takes the Art Loeb Trail to Deep Gap, ascends Cold Mountain, and returns to Camp Daniel Boone by the Art Loeb Trail. Strenuous and about 13-14 miles.  This hike can also include Shining Rock.

         Cold Mountain via Shining Rock Ledge and Art Loeb Trail to Camp Daniel Boone.  From the parking area near Sam Knob on Forest Road 816 this route follows the level railroad bed to Shining Rock Gap, then picks up the Art Loeb Trail to Deep Gap, climbs Cold Mountain, then descends to Camp Daniel Boone via the Art Loeb Trail.  About 13-14 miles.  Chief inconvenience is the long distance by road from the starting to the ending point.

